components/esp_wifi_remote/examples/mqtt/README.md, before:

# MQTT application running on WiFi station

This is a simple mqtt demo, that connects to WiFi AP first. This application has a dependency to `esp_wifi_remote`, so that if it's build and executed on a chipset without WiFI capabilities it redirects all wifi calls the remote target.

## Overview

This is a simple example demonstrating connecting to an MQTT broker, subscribing and publishing some data.
This example uses IDF build system and could be configured to be build and executed:
* for any ESP32 family chip
* for linux target

## How to use example

### Hardware Required

To run this example, you need any ESP32 development board or just PC/virtual machine/container running linux operating system.

### Host build modes

Linux build is supported in these two modes:
* `WITH_LWIP=0`: Without lwIP component. The project uses linux BSD socket interface to interact with TCP/IP stack. There's no connection phase, we use the host network as users. This mode is often referred to as user-side networking.
* `WITH_LWIP=1`: Including lwIP component, which is added to the list of required components and compiled on host. In this mode, we have to map the host network (linux TCP/IP stack) to the target network (lwip). We use IDF's [`tapif_io`](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/tree/master/examples/common_components/protocol_examples_tapif_io) component to create a network interface, which will be used to pass packets to and from the simulated target. Please refer to the [README](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf/tree/master/examples/common_components/protocol_examples_tapif_io#readme) for more details about the host side networking.

### Building on linux

1) Configure linux target
```bash
idf.py --preview set-target linux
```

2) Build the project with preferred components (with or without lwip)
```bash
idf.py -DWITH_LWIP=0 build  # Building without lwip (user networking)
idf.py -DWITH_LWIP=1 build  # Building with lwip (TAP networking)
```

3) Run the project

It is possible to run the project elf file directly, or using `idf.py` monitor target (no need to flash):
```bash
idf.py monitor
```
idf.py -DWITH_LWIP=0 build  # Building without lwip (user networking)

Commit message:

fix(wifi_remote): Make services restartable, code cleanup
* Original commit: espressif/esp-protocols@6c82ce2915d92971e24c3114acca5fa63a6a8481

components/esp_wifi_remote/examples/mqtt/README.md, after:

# MQTT application running on WiFi station

This is a simple mqtt demo, that connects to WiFi AP first. This application has a dependency to `esp_wifi_remote`, so that if it's build and executed on a chipset without WiFI capabilities it redirects all wifi calls the remote target.

## Overview

When running this example on a target that doesn't natively support WiFi, please make sure that the remote target (slave application) is connected to your chipset via the configured transport interface.

Connection to the slave device also depends on RPC library used. It is recommended to use [`esp_hosted`](https://github.com/espressif/esp-hosted). Alternatively you can use [`eppp_link`](https://components.espressif.com/components/espressif/eppp_link).

Please note, that `esp_hosted` as a component is currently WIP, so the `wifi_remote` defaults to `eppp`, for now.

## HW connection

We currently support only `UART` transport, so the connection is very simple. You only need to connect Rx, Tx and GND with the remote target.
You need to configure these fields according to your connection:
* CONFIG_ESP_WIFI_REMOTE_EPPP_UART_TX_PIN
* CONFIG_ESP_WIFI_REMOTE_EPPP_UART_RX_PIN

## SW configuration

The RPC mechanism between the host and the slave micro uses TLS with mutual authentication, so you would have to configure certificates and keys for both parties. This application -- host target -- is considered RPC client, so it needs client's certificate and key, as well as the CA certificate to validate the server (slave application).
If self-signed certificates are acceptable, you can use [generate_test_certs](../test_certs/generate_test_certs.sh) script to generate both the CA and the keys itself and convert them to the PEM format that's accepted by the EPPP RPC engine.
You will have to configure these options:
* CONFIG_ESP_WIFI_REMOTE_EPPP_SERVER_CA
* CONFIG_ESP_WIFI_REMOTE_EPPP_CLIENT_CRT
* CONFIG_ESP_WIFI_REMOTE_EPPP_CLIENT_KEY

## Setting up slave device

You need to set up the connection and configuration in a similar way on the slave part (connection pins + certificates and keys). Please refer to the [slave_application](../server/README.md) README for more information.
